welcome back ladies gentleman's to
another episode of the Chinese sayings
podcast Laszlo Montgomery here as
promised with more lean Jean guru foo
jing jing' say this time another classic
from the warring States Period 475 to
221 BCE or there abouts no one ever
agrees on that start date as I mentioned
last episode there were two rather
well-known Xiang Yu that are attributed
to lean Shang Wu last week we heard the
story about how lean Shang Wu returned
the whole Jade back to JA Wan be qui jaw
so let's take a look this time at
another classic tale from those good old
joe dynasty days phu jing jing' swing
let's break it down to its constituent
parts first character foo to carry
something on your back or shoulder or to
bear a burden or responsibility among
many other meanings of course Jing
that's a kind of a tree but it's short
for Jing Qi which means thorns or
brambles fuging thorns or brambles
carried on the back okay not sure what
that means but let's keep going Ching
means to request or to ask and say means
a crime or guilt foo ching-ching say
carry thorns request crime well just
like last episode if you're not hip to
the stories of lien Shang Wu I doubt
you'll guess what these four syllables
add up to as usual we have to go back to
that great repository of chong you the
records of the grand historian the sure
g somach yen in the chapter titled Lian
Pauline Xiang rule Iran the biography of
the important Lin Chang Rou there is
this story like last time the story also
takes place during the time of the
pugnacious King chou-heung of Qin as I
mentioned before he was a serious
warrior king and under his rule well the
Qin state emerged as the most powerful
of the remaining warring States left
over from the Jo dynasty as you recall
lien shang wu was from the neighboring
state of ja
with its capital at present-day honden
in Hebei Chien was at this time in the
process of taking chow down the two
states have been going at it for a while
and it's all gonna end at Chun ping in
260 BCE with the destruction of the Chau
army and the victory of Qin all covered
in a previous China history podcast
episode CHP 157 I believe but that
hadn't happened yet and Jo was still
hanging tough
we saw how earlier in 283 BCE lien Shang
Wu rescued the precious Kirby from the
wily and capricious King chou-heung of
Qin and then we ended last episode with
Lin shang wu cashing in big time on his
achievement and he soon found himself
elevated to the post of chief minister
this really made Lin Chang grew a major
guy in the child government prior to all
this the most celebrated man in Jiao was
the great military leader Lian poor now
seeing Lin Shang Wu get all this
attention was hurtful to Lian pause
pride and amongst his closest comrades
when they'd be out drinking and
carousing he'd say he was gonna get that
Lynch young rule if it's the last thing
he did he swore whenever he could he'd
go out of his way to try and make Lin
lose face and he tried it diminish him
whenever he had the opportunity anyone
who's been to Disneyland knows it's a
small world and word got back to Lin
Shang Wu that Lian paw had planned a
long-term protracted war of passive
aggression against him and Lian Paul was
true to his word you know there's
nothing big but one after the other
these public incidents would go down Lee
and Paul would say something or do
something and Lin Chang grew each time
swallowed his pride or back to offer
said nothing you know what people were
beginning to wonder dang Lin Chang guru
where's your spine not to mention your
face and Lian Paul was feeling good
because people saw how he was showing in
Shang Wu who was the better of the two
despite Lynch Andrews meteoric rise to
the top of the civil government one day
there was this incident at a very narrow
road Lin Chang Roos carriage encountered
Lee and paws carriage coming from the
opposite direction and it was one of
those things where one of them had to
back up or else they'd be there all day
you know there were all these ancient
and well-worn rules about you know order
and relationship and according to these
traditions Lee and poor top military guy
though he was was still one rung under
Lin Chang Roos ranking on the political
pecking order so Lee an Pau should have
backed up but he stood his ground so Lin
Chang grew senior in rank though he was
gave the order for his driver back up
and let Lee and Paul get by and a lot of
people were standing around of course
they saw what happened and people talked
as people do and one by one Lin Chang
Roos clients and allies began to leave
him his closest friends appealed to him
asking why he was exhibiting so much
weakness in the face of Lee and pause
blatant disrespect and Lin shang wu
replied that these matters between
himself and Lee and poor were personal
and didn't concern the state
he continued Jo was under imminent
threat from Qin and at this dark hour
solidarity needed to be maintained and
so for the sake of keeping peace within
Chao and not causing any political
disturbances he gave Lee and paw a wide
berth and didn't make any waves well
with someone brought this info to Lee
and paw and after he had fulminated
about it for a while he and Pau
privately bowed his head in shame and
with a sigh realized how small and petty
he had been putting his own feelings of
pride and self-pity before the welfare
of the JA state all along while he was
out and about thinking what a great man
he was compared to Lin Chang Roo
it was Lin Shang Wu who was actually the
more noble of the two so ashamed
himself was Lian Pau and so filled with
remorse was he that to show his
sincerity and demonstrate his deepest
humility along with his apology Lian Pau
cut down a bunch of thorny brambles and
he tied them all up and strapped the
branches to his back and he proceeded to
lean Shang Roos residence and with every
step he walked towards Lin Chang Roos
the thorny branches tied to his back
scratched his skin and by the time he
arrived at Lin's doors back was a bloody
mess and Lin Xiao Yue of course he got
the message
and was moved by Lian pause sincerity
and his unreserved apology and show of
contrition so they talked it over and
well happy ending for the rest of their
days these two remained good friends so
we can see from this story that the
general Lian paw he fooled Jing Carried
brambles and thorns on his back and then
when he faced Lin Chang grew he changed
they admitted his guilt or sought a
penalty for his crime he carried these
nasty thorny branches on his back my
kind of self-flagellation
to show his remorse and then beg for
forgiveness from Lin Chang guru so when
you really were being a CAD or made a
big deal about something that you were
in the wrong about this one's for you
fool Jing Jing say I'm not saying you
should go out and flagellate yourself
like Lian paw but sometimes when you
really go the extra mile to be a jerk or
that other word that starts with a
remember the deeds of Lian paw who felt
he had to go as far as to fool Jing Jing
Zhi in order to make things right this
is reserved for those times when you
need to go beyond the call of duty to
show remorse for your actions fool Jing
Jing wait okay friends and countrymen
that is all there is to say about that
one this time I hope you enjoyed our
little two-part series featuring the
hero from the warring state of Jah mr.
Lin shangri-la zwo Montgomery here
signing off from scorching hot Los
Angeles California consider joining me
next time won't you pretty much every
seven
days for another informative useful and
historic episode of the Chinese sayings
podcast
you